README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ErikDubbelboer/discnt.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/ErikDubbelboer/discnt)

Discnt, in-memory, distributed counters
===

[discnt.io](http://discnt.io)

Discnt provides in memory distributed eventually consistent counters.


Setup
===

To play with Discnt please do the following:

1. Compile Discnt, if you can compile Redis, you can compile Discnt, it's the usual no external deps thing. Just type `make`. Binaries (`discnt-cli` and `discnt-server`) will end up in the `src` directory.
2. Run a few Discnt nodes in different ports. Create different `discnt.conf` files following the example `discnt.conf` in the source distribution.
3. After you have them running, you need to join the cluster. Just select a random node among the nodes you are running, and send the command `CLUSTER MEET <ip> <port>` for every other node in the cluster.

To run a node, just call `./discnt-server`.

For example if you are running three Discnt servers in port 7711, 7712, 7713 in order to join the cluster you should use the `discnt-cli` command line tool and run the following commands:

    ./discnt-cli -p 7711 cluster meet 127.0.0.1 7712
    ./discnt-cli -p 7711 cluster meet 127.0.0.1 7713

Your cluster should now be ready. You can try to add a job and fetch it back
in order to test if everything is working:

    ./discnt-cli -p 7711
    127.0.0.1:7711> INCRBY test 0.1
    0.1
    127.0.0.1:7711> GET test
    0.1

Remember that you can increment counters on different nodes as Discnt
is multi master.

API
===

Discnt API is composed of a small set of commands, since the system solves a
single very specific problem. The main commands are:

    INCRBY counter_name increment
Increments the counter by the specified increment. If the counter does not exist, it is set to 0 before performing the operation. 
If the command is successful the new incremented value is stored and returned to the caller as a string.
The precision of the output is fixed at 17 digits after the decimal point regardless of the actual internal precision of the computation.

    SET counter_name value
Set a counter to the specified value.

A SET also resets the local prediction to 0 and broadcasts it.

    GET counter_name
Get the value of the counter. If the counter does not exist 0 is retured.
The precision of the output is fixed at 17 digits after the decimal point regardless of the actual internal value.

    PRECISION counter_name [value]
Set or get the precision for the local counter. See [Predictions](http://discnt.io#predictions).


For more see [discnt.io#api](http://discnt.io#api)


Client libraries
===

Discnt uses the same protocol as Redis itself. To adapt Redis clients, or to use it directly, should be pretty easy. However note that Discnt default port is 5262 and not 6379.

FAQ
===

Is Discnt part of Redis?
---

No, it is a standalone project, however a big part of the Redis networking source code, nodes message bus, libraries, and the client protocol, were reused in this new project.

However while it is a separated project, conceptually Discnt is related to Redis, since it tries to solve a Redis use case in a vertical, ad-hoc way.

Who created Discnt?
---

Discnt is a side project of Erik Dubbelboer.

What does Discnt means?
---

DIStributed CouNTers.

Commit message:

Optional cluster state with GET

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ErikDubbelboer/discnt.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/ErikDubbelboer/discnt)

Discnt, in-memory, distributed counters
===

[discnt.io](http://discnt.io)

Discnt provides in memory distributed eventually consistent counters.


Setup
===

To play with Discnt please do the following:

1. Compile Discnt, if you can compile Redis, you can compile Discnt, it's the usual no external deps thing. Just type `make`. Binaries (`discnt-cli` and `discnt-server`) will end up in the `src` directory.
2. Run a few Discnt nodes in different ports. Create different `discnt.conf` files following the example `discnt.conf` in the source distribution.
3. After you have them running, you need to join the cluster. Just select a random node among the nodes you are running, and send the command `CLUSTER MEET <ip> <port>` for every other node in the cluster.

To run a node, just call `./discnt-server`.

For example if you are running three Discnt servers in port 7711, 7712, 7713 in order to join the cluster you should use the `discnt-cli` command line tool and run the following commands:

    ./discnt-cli -p 7711 cluster meet 127.0.0.1 7712
    ./discnt-cli -p 7711 cluster meet 127.0.0.1 7713

Your cluster should now be ready. You can try to add a job and fetch it back
in order to test if everything is working:

    ./discnt-cli -p 7711
    127.0.0.1:7711> INCRBY test 0.1
    0.1
    127.0.0.1:7711> GET test
    0.1

Remember that you can increment counters on different nodes as Discnt
is multi master.

API
===

Discnt API is composed of a small set of commands, since the system solves a
single very specific problem. The main commands are:

    INCRBY counter_name increment
Increments the counter by the specified increment. If the counter does not exist, it is set to 0 before performing the operation. 
If the command is successful the new incremented value is stored and returned to the caller as a string.
The precision of the output is fixed at 17 digits after the decimal point regardless of the actual internal precision of the computation.

    SET counter_name value
Set a counter to the specified value.

A SET also resets the local prediction to 0 and broadcasts it.

    GET counter_name [STATE]
Get the value of the counter. If the counter does not exist 0 is retured.
The precision of the output is fixed at 17 digits after the decimal point regardless of the actual internal value.
If the optional STATE is specified GET returns a multi reply containing the value and either the string CONSISTENT or
INCONSISTENT depending on the cluster state.

    PRECISION counter_name [value]
Set or get the precision for the local counter. See [Predictions](http://discnt.io#predictions).


For more see [discnt.io#api](http://discnt.io#api)


Client libraries
===

Discnt uses the same protocol as Redis itself. To adapt Redis clients, or to use it directly, should be pretty easy. However note that Discnt default port is 5262 and not 6379.

FAQ
===

Is Discnt part of Redis?
---

No, it is a standalone project, however a big part of the Redis networking source code, nodes message bus, libraries, and the client protocol, were reused in this new project.

However while it is a separated project, conceptually Discnt is related to Redis, since it tries to solve a Redis use case in a vertical, ad-hoc way.

Who created Discnt?
---

Discnt is a side project of Erik Dubbelboer.

What does Discnt means?
---

DIStributed CouNTers.
